# Mu-SHROOM @ SemEval 2025: Validation Set
This archive corresponds to the validation data for the Mu-SHROOM shared task 3 at Semeval 2025 (The Multilingual Shared-task on Hallucinations and Observable Overgeneration Mistakes).
It contains:
1. the present README,
2. JSONL files containing the annotated data corresponding to our validation split (henceforth "the data files").

There are seperate files for all 10 languages of the shared task : Arabic (modern standard), Chinese (Mandarin), English, Finnish, French, German, Hindi, Italian, Spanish, and Swedish.

## What is Mu-SHROOM?
The task consists in detecting spans of text corresponding to hallucinations. 
Participants are asked to determine which parts of a given text produced by LLMs constitute hallucinations.
The task is held in multi-lingual and multi-model context, i.e., we provide data in multiple languages and produced by a variety of public-weights LLMs.

This task is a follow-up on last year's SemEval Task 6 (SHROOM).

More information is available on the official task website: 
https://helsinki-nlp.github.io/shroom/

## How will participants be evaluated?

Participants will be ranked along two (character-level) metrics: 
1. intersection-over-union of characters marked as hallucinations in the gold reference vs. predicted as such
2. how well the probability assigned by the participants' system that a character is part of a hallucination correlates with the empirical probabilities observed in our annotators.

Rankings and submissions will be done separately per language.

## Data file format
The data files are formatted as a JSON lines. Each line is a JSON dict object and corresponds to an individual datapoint.

Each datapoint corresponds to a different annotated LLM production, and contains the following information:
- a unique datapoint identifier (`id')
- a language (`lang');
- a model input question (`model_input`), the input passed to the models for generation;
- a model identifier (`model_id`) denoting the HuggingFace identifier of the corresponding model;
- a model output (`model_output_text`), the output generated by a LLM when provided the aforementiond input;
- binarized annotations (`hard_labels`), provided as a list of pairs, where each pair corresponding to the start (included) and end (excluded) of a hallucination;
- continuous annotations (`soft_labels`), provided as a list of dictionary objects, where each dictionary objects contains the following keys:
   + `start`, indicating the start of the hallucination span,
   + `end`, indicating the end of the hallucination span,
   + `prob`, the empirical probabilty (proportion of annotators) marking the span as a hallucination

The hard labels (`hard_labels`) will be used to assess the intersection-over-union accuracy, whereas the soft labels (`soft_labels`) will be used to measure correlation.
In the evaluation phase, participants will be tasked with reconstructing the soft labels and provide the `start`, `end` and `prob` keys of all the spans they detect. 


## How will this dataset differ from upcoming data releases?
Each language-specific file contains 50 datapoints. Test files will contain 150 datapoints.

Furthermore:
- We intend to release an unannotated train set;
- We intend to provide supplementary information about the generation process in a v2 of this dataset split;
- We intend to release supplementary annotation details after the evaluation phase.


